## What is open source?

### Study, Run, Improve!

Open Source is a software model where the program source code is freely
available for people to study, improve and run. People from different countries,
backgrounds, and ideas collaborate to build Open Source software in a
distributed manner.

### Free as in freedom, not free as in beer üç∫

Open Source software does not mean free of charge, although usually, it is. Open
Source also does not mean free labor. Open Source also does not mean bad for
business.

## Why contribute?

### Build confidence

By contributing to an Open Source project, you get immediate feedback on your
development process and programming skills. You'll improve something you rely
on, and build confidence.

### Build a network

By contributing, you become a part of hundreds of thousands of developers. You
will interact with several like-minded individuals and build a global network.

### Develop skills

Whether it‚Äôs programming, user interface design, graphic design, writing, or
organizing, if you‚Äôre looking for practice, there‚Äôs a task for you on an open
source project.‚Äã

## Glossary

### Issue

Basically "project planning". The maintainers create issues for new features
they want to add, and users create issues for well‚Ä¶ the issues they are facing.

### Repository

In simple words, a bucket of code. Consider this to be the root directory of the
project.

### Upstream

The source repository of the project you are contributing to.

### Fork

A copy of the upstream repository to your own account. Usually, you do changes
in your fork before creating a "Pull Request".

### Pull Request

Sometimes also called a "Merge Request", this is a "request" to the maintainers
to merge your fork with the upstream. This goes through a review.

### Review

As the name suggests, a review of your pull request by the maintainers. It is
usually done to find bad code, grammatical mistakes or to suggest changes.

### Maintainer

A person who is in-charge of the repository. May or may not be a group of
people.

## Git, GitHub and Open Source

### Git

Git is a distributed source code management tool to manage code repositories. It
has features like commits, branching, a staging area and itself is open source.

### GitHub

GitHub is an online service which for software development and version control
using Git. It has multiple features over plain Git, such as, "issues", "wikis",
"pull requests" and "sponsorships".

## How to contribute?

### 1. Find an issue

Find yourself an issue to work with. Do ask for maintainer approval before
taking it up.

### 2. Work

Get to work. Work doesn't only mean coding. It also contains documentation
reading and review cycles.

### 3. Upstream

After the maintainers of the repository approve your contribution, they merge
it.

## Finding Issues

### Look for labels

Project maintainers use issue labels such as "Suggested" and "Good-first-issue"
that may be good for new contributors looking for work to do.

### [Good first issue](https://goodfirstissue.dev)

Good First Issue is a DeepSource initiative that curates easy pickings from
popular open-source projects, and helps you make your first contribution to
open-source.

## Things to keep in mind

- Contributions are not just code
- Maintainers are humans
